16341224	I have been separated from the mother of my children since 2003 and divorced for about 10 years. I have since remarried. Although we no longer belong married to each other, we have preserved a very strong friendship with genuine concern for each other's well-being as well as for our shared families. We visit each other and vacation with each other's families. As a result, our children have not had to deal with much hurtful behavior between the two adults they love as parents. They have seen an honest relationship between two adults that is largely respectful and caring. Laughter is the dominant activity when we are all together.   Marriage. divorce and romantic relationships are evolving rapidly in modern life. Tomorrow, I will be part of the celebration of my former mother-in-laws 94th birthday. Last time I was at the house, a new partner being introduced to the family asked how I was related. I was thinking how to respond when one of my former sister-in-laws simply said 'He is the father of Alba and Jeff.' Family can still be family despite all the changes.   Thanks to the author of the article for sharing your experience.	7	0
16314924	My parents divorced when I was just five years old. They decided to be friends. They raised me together even though they were not. They spent every birthday, Christmas, and major event together for me and my sister. They never missed an event whether it be a basketball game or a school performance. They were there, next to each other on the bleachers or in the auditorium.  I never sensed any animosity between them and because of that instead of spending my life being bothered that my family was different I was able to grow and become a successful and happy person because I had two wonderful role models. From them I have learned that I do not need a spouse to lead a happy life, they have also taught me how to be forgiving, and how family is most important so you do what it takes to be with them. 	4	0
16256266	Most of the harsh commenters here strike me as narcissists, and probably sources of misery for any partners they might have. A happily married, kind,  generous commenter would show compassion for the divorced couple, expressing concern for the family's loss, instead of wagging a finger in a show of superiority. 	7	0
16251508	"There was no template for what was happening to my young family;...." Well, outside of the author's own social circle, the template for cooperative co-parentlng has long been established.  And written about.  Many times.  This is a well done re-telling, but not news.  Newly divorced parents should be aware that the template is long-established, and draw comfort and strength from that fact.	1	0
16248163	Oh the Haters! I must say there is nothing remarkable or shocking about what this woman and her ex are doing. Great job! Exes who aren't jerks to each other. Wow, grownup behavior. It's nice to read about for it is a point of view not often heard.  Many former couples with children do this, I do it myself.  What is remarkable is the amount of ignorant vitriolic spew that is being typed out.  I must say if you haven't experienced divorce why are you commenting on this article, you contribute nothing except your narrow view of how divorce and its aftermath is supposed to play out with no context!  Newsflash! Like in regular life we can choose to be petty, self-righteous, judgmental, and critical of others or we can choose forgiveness, understanding and acceptance.  I myself was married for 14 years, and 4 years on, while not perfect, this approach works. My ex and I co-parent because we love our children very much. We still argue, we disagree, hmm, sounds like real life. I too, take vacations with my ex-spouse and we have fun. Our respective partners understand this as well and support our actions because they trust us.  Are my children confused? No. They understand the situation, they are 12 and 10 and handling it well. Do they wish their parents had never split, I'm sure they do, but they learned to adapt, for children are resilient. They know they are loved. Set an example for your kids, on how to handle conflict and life in general, married or not, your kids will thank you.	5	0
16246365	My parents had a later in life divorce--after the kids went off to college.  I prefer to think of my parents' relationship as one that is now much more respectful and collaborative, and like the one discussed here.  To me, it doesn't matter so much that they are no longer together, but that they are happier people now.  Children can sense tension and conflict; it flows down to them, as does happiness.  Kudos for the author and her ex for making their relationship a first priority.  	5	0
16227207	This couples' solution is all about ultimately meeting the parents' needs, no one here feels badly about divorce.  The children will adapt to what is their new family, but they will be confused.  Is this the love of a family or just a new arrangement  for parents who could not make a good set of decisions about love, commitment,  and child rearing that could stand the test of time - in this case just a very few years? What horrifies me more is the comment of "corrosive boredom that is child rearing". Wow!  I have 4 kids, worked full time, but never did I find it boring.  I found it exhausting, messy, chaotic, and anxiety producing at times, but I made it known that this was going to be a labor of  joyful love.  My kids now grown would agree.  Maybe that was the problem of this family - "corrosive boredom" and if that had been recognized earlier then maybe there would have been a different outcome.	5	1
16221764	I'm always perplexed when I hear about a couple with young children divorcing.  These kids were 4.5 and 2.5 when the parents split.  Presumably, things were going downhill before then.  Why are you having children when your marriage is on the rocks?  Maybe more people should think about the state of their relationship before they bring children into the chaotic mess in their lives.	6	0
16215828	Thank you for sharing this wonderful story of parents who loved their children. Thank you too for encouraging other parents to make the best of a bad situation. If more could see this choice – before behaving badly – more would suffer less.	12	0
16214220	Never mind the judgmental comments coming from people who don't know you or your situation. I've been married for 23 years and have been separated for over two years now. People are astounded by the friendly relationship my husband and I have with one another. They ask why we have split up if we get along? Well, we did not get along for many years and it was time to make a change. People deserve happiness and fulfillment in life and if a couple is going to separate and divorce, it is nice that some people can maintain a friendly, mature relationship without bitterness and contempt which is what the vast majority of people have.	15	0
16211728	My husband and I divorced two years ago after nearly sixteen years of marriage. However we chose to put our family first and bought a duplex, connected the two sides with a door, including a dog door, so our 12 year old daughter and two dogs can run freely between the two. People often ask us about finding new partners.  Since we chose to put our family first, and we only have our daughter at home for six more years, finding new partners is not a priority for either of us. Of course this arrangement would not work for many divorced couples but it works for us. We are all very happy and I wish the author and her family the best.	15	1
16211444	I have to echo some other comments. While I appreciate that you are trying to be loving, I think this will confuse the children. My parents separated, but pretended to be together for the sake of the children and also because I think my mother hoped my father was having a midlife crisis.   I was 13, and my sister was 8, not much older than your older child. When we figured it out (as kids do), we were both crushed. When we figured out the extent of the fake life our family had been living, we both had issues. Mine were more "daddy issues" that I may have had anyway. I resolved them, but my first relationship was abusive. My sister, however, has always harbored intense anger at the fact that we were "tricked" into thinking we were leading a normal family life. She has never fully recovered from her feelings of betrayal. I wouldn't advise going this route. I know my parents meant well, but parents need to be honest with children. Good luck! 	3	2
16209967	Lara, thank you for writing what I could never put into words about my own life and wonderful family. It works for some of us, but I try never to recommend it to others. The circumstances must be just right.	2	0
16209705	It all sounds so lovely and successful. Not many of these comments reflected what was going on with the children on this "happy family vacation." I know from personal experience that all small children really want their parents to be back together again. For these children, there was nothing better than having both their parents on a family vacation. What confusing boundaries do we have here? I have been in this situation and it literally left my head  spinning because I couldn't work out what was happening. My parents were divorced but were trying to have a family holiday together??? I don't think things have modernized enough to let this be OK. 	5	1
16202730	I am amazed at how judgemental and venomous some individuals are in their comments. My parents divorced when I was 10. It was actually a relief. I do value marriage and am in my 17th year with my husband and hope we make it to 50 years. The author if this article isn't flippant about marriage. She is describing her experience and her efforts to nurture her family after a fracture. Her children will be fine in 20-30 years. They have 2 parents that love them.	21	0
16208788	I suppose that most of us react to an essay like this one based on how we feel it would or wouldn't work for us.  This wouldn't work for me at all, and I agree with the commenters who feel it would be confusing for the children.  Trying my best to see it from the writer's point of view, I still cannot get over the fact that enjoying the sunset over the ocean with glasses of red wine in hand, while the children shriek with joy in a distant part of the house, is not an image of a divorced couple who have successfully moved on from their marriage to each other.  How many glasses of wine before the inevitable happens between the "still relatively young, still relatively attractive" couple? How would the uninvited, current  romantic partner of either of these two feel about this scene?  If there is no current romantic partner of either of these two, is it perhaps because they remain deeply joined to each other?  Try as I might, I can't see how this level of emotional connection with a divorced spouse is likely to lead to a good result, either for the children or the couple.	7	3
16208027	This is quite striking:  "My ex-husband and I did not treat each other well during our short marriage. We were unable to make the other feel safe, loved and appreciated. In hard times, we turned on each other. There was plenty of finger-pointing and grudge-holding, and very little benefit of the doubt."  This says it right here, and ties into what someone mentioned about being a trial lawyer: " I grew up in a loving but undeniably hard-charging and overachieving environment, a world of moral absolutes: good/bad, success/failure, right/wrong."  But living with a spouse in a marriage requires the ability to see the grey areas, to be able to give and take without sitting in a narrow, judgmental box, eager to keep score and tally up the wins v. the losses.  	6	0
16207083	I think a large part of the problem is that you are a lawyer and inevitably that influences how you think about life: lawyering is a way (perhaps not the best way, if there is one) of communicating with others and dealing with life. It basically involves a lack of trust, stilted rule-bound dialog, and a focus on specific alleged facts, rather than a global view. For example, lawyer divorce rates are more than twice as high as scientist divorce rates, though incomes are similar.  	4	0
16206879	ROFL!  I hope the author has the decency to show this article to every person she starts dating. And to make sure her ex does the same.   I look forward to reading her sequels, five, ten, fifteen, twenty years down the road. Oh, how "interesting" divorced life gets for the children when their parents have new significant others, possibly with their own children of divorce. For every couple that makes it work (assessed by the children affected when they are at an age to do so) my guess is that there are probably ten who didn't. There are simply too many complicating factors and conflicting interests. 	5	0
16206739	A tale of beauty , you just keep in your heart and cherish it. Or if you have a big heart, you share with the world so that they get the light from the candle of love you discovered. But, something is just not right. There is just no mention of what actually happened. The kids were 2 and 4 years when the author and her ex moved out of common house.  There is a total lack of empathy towards the children.  Of course you have to bail out of morality principle to tell the children, fast forward eighteen months, 'hey we have found a beautiful world of new sort of love which is found in post divorce family' - picture the 5 days holidays, it's perfect..-My take would be this is just a guilt relief exercise. Life did not turn out as rosy post eighteen months divorce that the separated couple have to settle for 5 day happy holiday, for which they need external validation, and paint the new situation as new found love.  Why can't she just say she felt miserable in marriage, had to be right always, the couple entered in a conflict dynamics which culminated in famous 'unexpected turn' , and somebody bailed out, which in the end created scars and continuing feelings of guilt. This is a cleverly camouflaged lie which gives false hope of newfound love..-it's best to paint failure as failure and accept it with humility. Then you can move forward and learn from your mistakes. Distorting reality to preserve self esteem is too much.	7	0
16206540	My parents never divorced. They stuck together and taught my sister and I how to work through issues, solve them and live happily ever after. I had the exact same expectations for my family, although it's not how it turned out. Weeks after the birth of our second child, it was all over. We worked for 3 years to repair it; counselling, resetting, forgiveness, prayer, everything. But in the end, we had to accept it was over. For me, accepting it was truly over was harder than the divorce. I struggled with the failure and was devastated by the consequences I thought my kids would endure. Although, divorce stigma and misinformation was playing the largest part in my thinking. The reality is, with consistent input from two loving parents, kids have got it made. In my experience, it's the single greatest factor in our children's well-being. How can marriage status be a substitutive for a requirement for love and attention? Divorce does not equate to an unhappy child. My ex and I made a decision after 3 years to work on being friends. And, we made a long-term commitment to fight for that friendship for the sake of our children. In reality, after considering everything I know now, this is the best possible scenario for my family. For the four of us, this is our best family. Yes, it's even better than the family where we all live together all the time. I'm proud to demonstrate to my children the maturity it's taken us to get here. I'm proud of all of it. Even the divorce. 	21	0
16206531	I am 42 now. My parents fought for 25 yes until one day my mother left us - I was 17.  We had a nice upper-class life in another country. My mother came to usa (forcing her children to follow her). Became a realtor and has struggled since.  She continued  (as well as my father that still lives in another country) to fight over stupid things like property and threatening to divorce but never did.   I wish they had divorced a few years into their marriage so I don't see the ugly side. I wish they had moved on at least when I was 17. They never did.  I get angry looking at my mother and her struggles  the years after and how she has negatively impacted our lives. I have lived relatively unattached life after watching years of arguments .  The last few years my parents decided to learn to get along as friends. But the scars  for me has remained so deep that I refuse to speak to my mother.  Haven't spoken to her in a year.    Hats off to the writer to find an amicable  way while the kids are young.  I'm jealous - of the children and not about the couple.  Adults have ability to make their own choices but not the children.  I envy the writer.	6	0
16206480	My ex is gettin married this coming Sat..guess it's time 2 move forward,  UNLESS, your plan is different, GOD I want my family back	3	0
16206288	This story made me think of a boy I knew in middle school many years ago.  His parents divorced when we were 13 or 14 and their marriage was a battlefield in the period leading to to the split. Things after the divorce were just as bad.  This boy, who was once a good friend of mine, became bitter, angry and resentful because of the war going on between his divorced parents. He came to resent me because I lived in a loving home with both of my biological parents. I became one of the objects of his resentment and all of a sudden we weren't friends any more. Losing his friendship and having to endure his hostility really hurt me.  This boy apparently tried to deal with his negative feelings brought about by his parents divorce through using illegal street drugs. He financed his drug usage through criminal activity, mainly selling drugs and stealing.  He ended up in prison where he still is today in his early 60's. He is the consummate con man, blaming everyone but himself for his predicament.  I sometimes wonder what would have happen to him if his parents would have taken the same approach as the couple in this story. Instead, the toxic environment he had to endure basically destroyed his life.	5	0
16206212	About my name - it's hurting because I'm laughing  Anyhow, for 20+ years after separation and divorce, we still went on family vacations - to all over the USA, to Canada, to Mexico, to Europe twice, many Niagara vacations, and NY finger lakes were the best, finally wine tasting with our adult children.  It was all glorious.  Good for the children.  They are now very well balanced, happy, and successful adults.    So if you haven't tried it, you should!  Just remember to leave the past behind and enjoy the moment.  And be forgiving.  It is the ultimate unselfish act you can do for your children.	10	1
